README.md, before:

# Web Scaling Demo

This repository is a demo showcasing web scaling techniques, including horizontal scaling with Docker by running multiple containers, load balancing with Nginx, request caching with Redis, and content delivery using CDNs.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have the following installed:

- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository (if you haven't already):**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/abdoh-alkhateeb/web-scaling-demo.git
   cd web-scaling-demo
   ```

2. **Navigate to the root directory of the project:**
   Ensure your terminal is in the same directory as the `docker-compose.yml` file.

3. **Start the application:**
   ```bash
   docker compose up
   ```

This command will spin up all the necessary services defined in the `docker-compose.yml`, including multiple app containers, Nginx as a load balancer, and Redis for caching.

## Additional Notes

- Make sure Docker Desktop is running before executing any Docker commands.
- You can access the application in your browser at `http://localhost` (or the specified port).
- Logs will be output to your terminal. To stop the containers, press `Ctrl+C`.

Commit message:

Update docker-compose and Nginx configuration to support a new app instance and MongoDB integration.

README.md, after:

# Web Scaling Demo

This project demonstrates a scalable web application using Express, Redis, MongoDB, and Nginx for load balancing.

## Features

- **Express App**: Serves a simple weather application.
- **Redis**: Caches weather data to improve performance.
- **MongoDB**: Logs each request with the request date and requester's IP address.
- **Nginx**: Load balances traffic across multiple instances of the Express app.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed on your machine.

### Running the Application

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <your-github-repo-url>
   cd web-scaling-demo
   ```

2. Start the application using Docker Compose:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up
   ```

3. Access the application at `http://localhost`.

## Configuration

- The Express app runs on port 8080.
- Three instances of the app are deployed for horizontal scaling.
- MongoDB logs each request with the request date and requester's IP address.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
